Getting Started
===============

.. contents:: :local:

In order to use rbeapi, the EOS command API must be enabled using management
api http-commands configuration mode. This library supports eAPI calls over
both HTTP and UNIX Domain Sockets. Once the command API is enabled on the
destination node, create a configuration file with the node properities.

Note: The default search path for the conf file is ``~/.eapi.conf`` followed by
``/mnt/flash/eapi.conf``. This can be overridden by setting
``EAPI_CONF=<path/conf_file>`` in your environment.

Example eapi.conf File
----------------------

Below is an example of an eAPI conf file. The conf file can contain more than
one node. Each node section must be prefaced by connection:<name> where <name>
is the name of the connection.

The following configuration options are available for defining node entries:

.. code-block:: console

    host - The IP address or FQDN of the remote device. If the host parameter is omitted then the connection name is used
    username - The eAPI username to use for authentication (only required for http or https connections)
    password - The eAPI password to use for authentication (only required for http or https connections)
    enablepwd - The enable mode password if required by the destination node
    transport - Configures the type of transport connection to use. The default value is https. Valid values are:
        socket (available in EOS 4.14.5 or later)
        http_local (available in EOS 4.14.5 or later)
        http
        https
    port - Configures the port to use for the eAPI connection. A default port is used if this parameter is absent, based on the transport setting using the following values:
        transport: http, default port: 80
        transport: https, deafult port: 443
        transport: https_local, default port: 8080
        transport: socket, default port: n/a
    open_timeout - The default number of seconds to wait for the eAPI connection to open. Any number may be used, including Floats for fractional seconds. Default value is 10 seconds.
    read_timeout - The default number of seconds to wait for one block of eAPI results to be read (via one read(2) call). Any number may be used, including Floats for fractional seconds. Default value is 10 seconds.

Note: See the EOS User Manual found at arista.com for more details on
configuring eAPI values.

All configuration values are optional.

.. code-block:: console

    [connection:veos01]
    username: eapi
    password: password
    transport: http

    [connection:veos02]
    transport: http

    [connection:veos03]
    transport: socket

    [connection:veos04]
    host: 172.16.10.1
    username: eapi
    password: password
    enablepwd: itsasecret
    port: 1234
    transport: https

    [connection:localhost]
    transport: http_local

The above example shows different ways to define EOS node connections. All
configuration options will attempt to use default values if not explicitly
defined. If the host parameter is not set for a given entry, then the
connection name will be used as the host address.

Configuring [connection:localhost]
----------------------------------

The rbeapi library automatically installs a single default configuration entry
for connecting to localhost host using a transport of sockets. If using the
rbeapi library locally on an EOS node, simply enable the command API to use
sockets and no further configuration is needed for rbeapi to function. If you
specify an entry in a conf file with the name [connection:localhost], the
values in the conf file will overwrite the default.

Using rbeapi
------------

The Ruby Client for eAPI was designed to be easy to use and implement for
writing tools and applications that interface with the Arista EOS management
plane.

Creating a connection and sending commands
------------------------------------------

Once EOS is configured properly and the config file created, getting started
with a connection to EOS is simple. Below demonstrates a basic connection using
rbeapi. For more examples, please see the examples folder.

.. code-block:: console
    # start by importing the library
    require 'rbeapi/client'

    # create a node object by specifying the node to work with
    node = Rbeapi::Client.connect_to('veos01')

    # send one or more commands to the node
    node.enable('show hostname')
    node.enable('show hostname')
    => [{:command=>"show hostname", :result=>{"fqdn"=>"veos01.arista.com", "hostname"=>"veos01"}, :encoding=>"json"}]

    # use the config method to send configuration commands
    node.config('hostname veos01')
    => [{}]

    # multiple commands can be sent by using a list (works for both enable or config)

    node.config(['interface Ethernet1', 'description foo'])
    => [{}, {}]

    # return the running or startup configuration from the node (output omitted for brevity)

    node.running_config

    node.startup_config

Using the API
-------------

The rbeapi library provides both a client for send and receiving commands over
eAPI as well as an API for working directly with EOS resources. The API is
designed to be easy and straightforward to use yet also extensible. Below is an
example of working with the vlans API

.. code-block:: console

    # create a connection to the node
    require 'rbeapi/client'
    node = Rbeapi::Client.connect_to('veos01')

    # get the instance of the API (in this case vlans)
    vlans = node.api('vlans')

    # return all vlans from the node
    vlans.getall
    => {"1"=>{:name=>"tester", :state=>"active", :trunk_groups=>[]},
     "4"=>{:name=>"VLAN0004", :state=>"active", :trunk_groups=>[]},
     "100"=>{:name=>"TEST_VLAN_100", :state=>"active", :trunk_groups=>[]},
     "300"=>{:name=>"VLAN0300", :state=>"active", :trunk_groups=>[]}}

    # return a specific vlan from the node
    vlans.get(1)
    => {:name=>"tester", :state=>"active", :trunk_groups=>[]}

    # add a new vlan to the node
    vlans.create(400)
    => true

    # set the new vlan name
    vlans.set_name(100, value: 'foo')
    => true

All API implementations developed by Arista EOS+ CS are found in the rbeapi/api
folder. See the examples folder for additional examples.
